MiNT library for Sozobon C eXtended version, patchlevel 46.

This is a port of Eric Smith's MiNT library to Sozobon C eXtended
version, based on Dave Gymer's original port.  It replaces the files
libc.a, libci.a and crt0.o from the original SozobonX distribution, and
includes a simple termcap library.

NOTE:  As of patchlevel 46, the MiNTlibs port for Heat-n-Serve C is no
longer supported.  Maintaining ports for two compilers is tricky enough,
and HSC is now several years out of date.  If you're interested in
taking over maintenance of the HSC port, please contact me at the
address below.

NOTE:  This port requires SozobonX version 2.00x24 or higher (as
displayed by `hcc -V'), as it assumes IEEE floating point support.  As
of this writing, the latest version of SozobonX can be obtained via
anonymous FTP from ftp.fu-berlin-de:/pub/atari/programming/sozobon.

A reminder, you _will_ need the pl46 include files to use this library.
These can be found where you found this archive, in the file
mntinc46.zoo or similar.

WHAT'S HERE:

    00readme
	This file.
    libc.a
    libci.a
    crt0.o
	MiNT-aware replacements for the SozobonX distribution files of
	the same name.
    libtermcap.a
	A simple termcap library.
    libsort.ttp
	A utility program that sorts an object library into optimal
	linking order.  You won't need this program unless you want to
	rebuild the library from the sources.
    patch/
	Include files that had to be modified for this port.

IF YOU JUST WANT TO USE IT:

To get yourself up and running with the MiNTlibs, do the following:

0)  Obtain and install the MiNT include files for this version.  Where
    you should install them depends on how you specify to `cc' where
    your include files live.  If you use the $INCLUDEDIR/$LIBDIR
    environment variables, install the headers in the directory
    ${INCLUDEDIR}/mint.  If you use the $INCLUDE/$LIB environment
    variables, install the headers in any directory specified in
    $INCLUDE, preferably as close to the front as possible.

1)  Copy the files libc.a, libci.a, crt0.o and libtermcap.a to the
    appropriate directory.  Again, this depends on how you specify to
    `cc' where your library files live.  If you use the
    $INCLUDEDIR/$LIBDIR environment variables, copy the files to the
    directory ${LIBDIR}/mint.  If you use the $INCLUDE/$LIB environment
    variables, copy the files to any directory specified in $LIB,
    preferably as close to the front as possible.

2)  Replace the following files in the MiNT header directory with the
    corresponding files in the patch/ directory in this package:

	compiler.h
	falcon.h
	mintbind.h
	osbind.h
	signal.h

And you're ready to roll!  If you use $INCLUDEDIR/$LIBDIR, use the
--mint flag to compile with the MiNTlibs.

IF YOU WANT TO PLAY WITH IT:

There are, unfortunately, no source patches distributed with this
package, as the diffs for SozobonX are rather heavily intertwined with
the diffs for C68.  Hopefully this will all be cleared up by the next
major MiNTlibs release.

DISCLAIMER:

What, you were expecting an ironclad guarantee of performance? ;)  Okay,
while I have built several large programs with this library with no
problems, I can't guarantee that there aren't still a few bugs lurking
around in the code.  Caveat emptor, use at your own risk, and all that
jazz.  And if you should happen to find a bug, please notify me at the
address below.

Have fun!

Scott Bigham				dsb@cs.duke.edu
