************************************************************************
* INCSPEC.TXT - this file contains the command syntaxs of the include 
* file's commands
************************************************************************

Please note that this file automatically includes the library NETWEB. 
It also defines all variables as INTegers and includes TRANSPRT.BH. A 
global variable called STIKINITIALISED contains the status of STiK - 1 
if everything is OK, or a negitive error code number (which has 
nothing to do with the built in error codes!).

FUNCTION gerrtxt$ (er%)

Returns the STiK error ER as a string.

FUNCTION gvstr$ (er$)

Returns a STiK internal configuration as a string. For example, if you 
want to get the users email address:

email$=gvstr$("EMAIL")

For me, email$ now contains "paulat.jones@zetnet.co.uk".

FUNCTION tcp_author$

Returns as a string the author's name of the TCP transport layer. 
Currently this is Dan Ackerman.

FUNCTION tcp_version$

Returns as a string the version number of the TCP transport layer.

FUNCTION tcp_module$

Returns information, as a string, about the TCP transport layer 
module.

FUNCTION networldver$

Returns as a string the NetWorld version number.

FUNCTION TCP_connect% (domain$, port, tos, alloc)

Connects to a domain named DOMAIN$ on port PORT with the Type of 
Service as TOS and amount of memory to allocate as ALLOC. This uses 
both resolve and TCP_open. Returns the handle number if positive, or 
-1 if an error occured.

FUNCTION get_response$ (cn, time)

Gets a string from the server. This is useful after sending a line 
with TCPsend below. CN is the channel, and TIME is the amount in time 
(in seconds) to wait for, before a time out error is sent back. 
Returned is the string from the server OR the text version of an error 
message! NOTE: I couldn't get this command to run correctly on HBASIC 
v1, so I've left it out. If anyone can figure out why, please let me 
know. 

FUNCTION TCPsend (cn, message$)

Please don't confuse this with TCP_send. This sends the message 
MESSAGE$ to channel CN. This is useful with get_response$ above. This 
command automatically adds chr$(13) and chr$(10) to it, calculates the 
length and sends it.

SUB initnetworld

Sets up NetWorld. If STiK is not installed correctly, stikinitialised 
will be a negitive error. NOTE: the include file will automatically 
call this sub routine for you.
