Shoot 'em Up Lib vol. I

Falcon 030 Version


(c) Copyright 1996 by Ari Feldman
All Rights Reserved
All other trademarks are Copyright by their respective holders



INTRODUCTION


Shoot 'em Up Lib is a free sprite graphics library for all 
Falcon030 developers.  Containing well over 300 professionally 
drawn images in several sizes and styles, Shoot 'em Up Lib 
is the ideal tool for developing the latest generation of games, 
educational programs and multimedia applications.


Shoot 'em Up Lib was developed as a direct result of my stint as 
a commercial and shareware game artist.  It was designed to 
offer programmers of all levels a complete "plug-n-play" 
graphics solution to use freely in their creations.  This way, 
programmers can concentrate on creating applications with 
consistent, high quality artwork without worrying about the gory 
details of drawing the art themselves or hiring an expensive 
outside artist. 


Shoot 'em Up Lib contains all original computer artwork.  
However, some of the artwork was featured in popular ST 
shareware games that I did the art for such as Insectroid (ST 
Format Cover Disk 3/93), Thurg-n-Murg (ST Review Christmas 
Edition?), and Megapede.  I decided to enhance many of these 
original 16 color images and bring them up to full color and add 
many new ones.



THE DETAILS


Shoot 'em Up Lib for F030 contains over 8 screens packed with 
ready-to-use sprite artwork.  The following types of games and 
applications are supported right "out of the box" with Shoot 'em 
Up Lib:


 * A "Smash TV" shoot -'em up clone

 * Dozens of Nintendo and Sega style platform games

 * Hundreds of Galaxian, RoboTron, and Space Invader type games

 * Dozens of Educational games

 * and many, many other possibilities


The F030 version of Shoot 'em Up Lib uses 320x200 images saved in 
the industry standard GIF89a format (viewable with GEMView and a 
number of Falcon graphics packages).  Most of the sprite screens 
use less than 100 unique colors, so Shoot 'em Up Lib is ideal 
for high-speed games.  I've also tried to give developers as 
much leeway as possible by leaving plenty of color palette 
entries open and keeping most of the sprites small so they 
animate faster.



RESTRICTIONS


While Shoot 'em Up Lib is free, I still retain the copyrights on 
it. Shoot 'em Up Lib is being made available free of charge for 
anyone to use for either personal OR commercial purposes. I do 
not require and will not request royalties or license fees on 
any of the products that developed with Shoot 'em Up Lib.  
However, I do ask that you respect the following in return for 
the freedom of use that I am granting you:


* You must officially register with me to legally use Shoot 'em 
Up Lib.  Registration is free and can be done via one of three 
methods:


You can e-mail the accompanying Registration form to me at:

ari@walrus.com


Or, you can register for Shoot 'em Up Lib online at:


http://www.walrus.com/~ari/register.htm 

NOTE: You will need Netscape 1.x or Microsoft Internet Explorer 
2.x to access this page properly!

You can also elect to snail mail the registration form to me at:

Ari Feldman 
2550 Independence Avenue
Bronx, NY 10463
USA

NOTE: Only thoses users who register online (e-mail or Web users) 
will receive verification!

In return, registered users will be allowed to use the Shoot 'em 
Up Lib product without penalty and will be informed of future 
Shoot 'em Up Lib volumes as well as other products that I will 
be releasing.  In addition, I will be available online to answer 
specific questions about how I implemented the Shoot 'em Up Lib 
art and to provide tips on getting the most out of the package.  
I also promise not to use your names for commercial purposes!  I 
merely want to keep track of who is doing what with my package.


* You must give me proper credit in your application's 
title/credits screen and documentation if you use at least five 
of the images contained in the Shoot 'em Up Lib package.  In 
addition, as a courtesy, I would appreciate (although you are 
not required) it if you sent me one free copy of every 
application or game you create with art featured in Shoot 'em Up 
Lib.  I simply want to see what's being done with my art!


* You can only use the F030 version of Shoot 'em Up Lib for 
creating F030 applications! You are not allowed to 
port the F030 version to any other hardware platform (I will be 
doing this myself in order to maintain quality control). 


* You may not sell for profit any of the art contained in the 
Shoot 'em Up Lib product.  In other words, you are free to sell 
your program creations that use Shoot 'em Up Lib images 
(provided you are a registered user) but you may not sell the 
Shoot 'em Up Lib package or a modified version of it as a 
separate product.


* You may not publicly distribute any of your programs or 
applications that use art found in Shoot 'em Up Lib if you are 
an unregistered user.


I ask you to please respect these restrictions.  There really no 
incentive to violate them since I'm not charging for the use of 
this package.



UPDATES


Yes, one of the perks of taking the time to register is that you 
will be able to receive updates to Shoot 'em Up Lib for free!  I 
will be making my Web site the official home for all product 
support and future Shoot 'em Up Lib releases. I still have a 
substantial amount of art that I haven't yet released and I plan 
to make it available to the Internet community at large provided 
that there is sufficient interest and that my registration 
requirements are respected.

For those users out there with Web access, I will be making 
future additions available via my Web Site.  Please e-mail me 
for the details!


I hope you enjoy Shoot 'em Up Lib and I look forward to hearing 
from you!



ABOUT ME


By day I'm a Producer with AGENCY.COM (http://www.agency.com), a 
leading Interactive Agency.  By night I'm a geek...  Anyway, I'm 
an ex-ST and Falcon owner.  However, I still follow Atari 
developments and keep involved via my GEMULATOR running on my 
Pentium-100 system.


-------------------------- cut here ------------------------------


PRODUCT REGISTRATION FORM


Name:__________________________________________
Address:_______________________________________
_______________________________________________
City:____________________
State/Province:________________  ZIP:__________
Country:_______________________
E-mail:___________________________
Web URL:_______________________________________


___ I agree to all of the terms specified above:

Sign:______________________   Date:_____________


Thanks for registering!






