








                 ENhanCed Hisoft ApplicatioN toolkiT (ENCHANT)
                    Developed by Matthew Bacon & Paul Jones

           ENCHANT is Copyright 1997-1999 Matthew Bacon & Paul Jones
                          Revision 12th September 1999














תתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתת

ת Important

The source code and other documented material provided as part of the ENCHANT
package as detailed below may NOT be distributed or changed without the
express permission of the copyright holder(s).

ת Minimum Requirements
  ת Atari (TOS) compatible Operating System
  ת HiSoft BASIC¿ v2.10
  ת 1Mb memory

ת Recommended Requirements
  ת Atari (TOS) compatible Operating System
  ת HiSoft BASIC¿ v2.10
  ת 4Mb memory (more if possible!)
  ת NVDI¿ v3 / SpeedoGDOS¿ v4 or above
  ת Multitasking operating system (MagiC¿/MultiTOS¿/Geneva¿)
  ת Hard drive

ת Liabilities
  This collection of programming routines and accompanying software (here
  after, ENCHANT) is supplied as is. Matthew Bacon, Paul Jones and/or
  contributors shall not be liable for any error, damage, inconvenience,
  loss of income and/or data incurred by the use/misuse of any data
  concerned with ENCHANT. Liability is limited to the purchase price.

  This documentation (including source code) and the data provided on disk
  contain proprietary information which is protected by copyright. No part
  of the software or the documentation may be reproduced, transcribed,
  stored in a retieval system, translated into any language in any form
  without the express permission of the publisher and copyright holder(s).

ת Copyright
  ENCHANT is Copyright 1997-1999 Matthew Bacon & Paul Jones. All rights reserved
  HiSoft BASIC is Copyright 1991-1999 HiSoft UK. All copyrights acknowledged
  All trademarks acknowledged

תתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתת

ת Introduction

     Welcome to the ENhanCed Hisoft ApplicatioN toolkiT (ENCHANT). With many
years of combined experience, Paul and myself have suffered (lack of sleep
mainly!) and learnt a great deal!! ENCHANT provides you with immediate
access to this experience (without the pain!).

     ENCHANT consists of a few hundred routines (over nine thousand lines
of source code), the result of many months of development by Matthew Bacon
(Cadenza Software) & Paul Jones (PJCO).
     ENCHANT includes a brand NEW GEM Toolkit (providing support for
non-modal dialogs, flydial dialogs and alerts, modern radio buttons and check
boxes, popup menus etc.). All you need to do is request the routine from
within your own source code, all the complicated stuff is done for you!!
ENCHANT is suitable for both novice and pro users.

     With the rapid development of system enhancements over recent years,
HiSoft BASIC users were previously unable to make full use of their potential.
However, ENCHANT (as you have probably guessed) brings GEM development bang
upto date including NVDI support and access to the BubbleGEM and ST-Guide
protocols to name but a few. Thank you once again for purchasing ENCHANT, we
hope that it provides you with the tools you require to develop stunning
Atari software!

Best regards,

Matthew & Paul


If you have any questions regarding HiSoft BASIC or ENCHANT in particular,
please feel free to write or contact us. We would in particular like to hear
from those who have used ENCHANT or HiSoft BASIC to produce any programs or
routines, as ENCHANT can only thrive through your support and contributions!

NB: Please note that ENCHANT has been developed independently of HiSoft¿ UK!
    Any questions/comments regarding ENCHANT should be directed to:

Write to: Cadenza Software, 49 Douglas Road, Surbiton, Surrey, KT6 7RZ, ENGLAND

  E-Mail:  cadenza@cyberstrider.org (Matthew)
           paul.jones31@virgin.net (Paul)

תתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתת

ת What's on the disks?

  ת Two DD disks should have been provided containing the following files:

    \ENCHANT\
    ת MANUAL.TXT (this file)             ת LIBRARY.TXT

    \ENCHANT\TOOLKIT\
    ת ACCSHELL.BAS                       ת POPUP.BAS
    ת ACC_TBOX.BAS                       ת SHELL.BAS
    ת DIALOG.BAS                         ת TEXTWIND.BAS
    ת EXEC.BAS                           ת TOOLBX_A.BAS
    ת FORMWIND.BAS                       ת TOOLBX_B.BAS
    ת FSELECT.BAS                        ת TOOLBX_C.BAS
    ת GEMAES.BH                          ת TOOLBX_D.BAS
    ת GEMTKIT.TXT                        ת WINDOW.BAS
    ת MENU.BAS                           ת XALERT.BAS
    ת NEWDESK.BAS                        ת XDIALOG.BAS
    ת OBJECT.BAS

    \ENCHANT\MODULES\
    ת BUBBLE.BAS                         ת MODULES.TXT
    ת CALC.BAS                           ת NVDI.BAS
    ת CLIPBORD.BAS                       ת NVDI_MAN.TXT
    ת CURSOR.BAS                         ת PRINTER.BAS
    ת CYPHER.BAS                         ת PROTOCOL.BAS
    ת DATETIME.BAS                       ת SAMPLES.BAS
    ת DISK.BAS                           ת SORT.BAS
    ת ERROR.BAS                          ת ST-GUIDE.BAS
    ת FILE.BAS                           ת SYSTEM.BAS
    ת MIDI.BAS

    \ENCHANT\EXAMPLES\
    ת \ADDRESS\    = Simple Address Book
    ת \FORMAT.TER\ = Basic disk formatter
    ת \GEM_T.KIT\  = Uses most of the new GEM Toolkit routines!
    ת \MIDIMATE\   = Cute little MIDI program

    Provided with ENCHANT are several example applications that show off
    some of ENCHANT's modules and the new GEM Toolkit. All the programs are
    supplied with their source code for you to compile and have a look at.
    Feel free to change and update the source code for use within
    your own programs, often that is the best way to learn! If you have any
    questions, give us a bell :)

  ת There is also a collection of free software/documentation which were
    found available freely over the internet. It is provided free of charge as
    support for the ENCHANT files. The copyright(s) remain with their
    respective authors. This directories contents is subject to change as we
    shall endeavour to provide you with the latest versions of the software/
    documentation.

תתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתת

ת Table of Contents

  \ENCHANT\MANUAL.TXT (this file)
   ת Introduction
   ת What's on the disks?
   ת Table of Contents
   ת GEM "Style Guide"
   ת Thanks...
   ת Future...

  \ENCHANT\LIBRARY.TXT
   ת The MODPLAY library                ת The WAVEPLAY library
   ת The NETWORLD library               ת ASCII character table

  \ENCHANT\TOOLKIT\GEMTKIT.TXT
   ת Global variables
   ת ACCSHELL.BAS                       ת POPUP.BAS
   ת ACC_TBOX.BAS                       ת SHELL.BAS
   ת DIALOG.BAS                         ת TEXTWIND.BAS
   ת EXEC.BAS                           ת TOOLBX_A.BAS
   ת FORMWIND.BAS                       ת TOOLBX_B.BAS
   ת FSELECT.BAS                        ת TOOLBX_C.BAS
   ת GEMAES.BH                          ת TOOLBX_D.BAS
   ת MENU.BAS                           ת WINDOW.BAS
   ת NEWDESK.BAS                        ת XALERT.BAS
   ת OBJECT.BAS                         ת XDIALOG.BAS

  \ENCHANT\MODULES\MODULES.TXT
   ת Global variables
   ת BUBBLE.BAS                         ת MIDI.BAS
   ת CALC.BAS                           ת NVDI.BAS
   ת CLIPBORD.BAS                       ת PRINTER.BAS
   ת CURSOR.BAS                         ת PROTOCOL.BAS
   ת CYPHER.BAS                         ת SAMPLES.BAS
   ת DATETIME.BAS                       ת SORT.BAS
   ת DISK.BAS                           ת ST-GUIDE.BAS
   ת ERROR.BAS                          ת SYSTEM.BAS
   ת FILE.BAS

  \ENCHANT\MODULES\NVDI_MAN.TXT
   ת NVDI.BAS

תתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתת

ת GEM "Style Guide"

These are very brief points about GEM standardisation which are very
important to the standard. If you want a better description, try refering to
the Atari Compendium section subtitled "Introduction to Style".

ת The Basics

A GEM program must have a menu bar so not to confuse the user. It is said
that a desk accessory should be located into a window, but it's our
suggestion to write a CPX instead (this is currently impossible in HBASIC,
but should be become possible as development continues).

Modal dialogs (ie dialogs using form_do) are strongly discouraged. This is
especially true in todays multitasking systems where more than program is
likely to be used. Please note that your application should only reserve
memory as nessessary, freeing up any spare for any other programs (this is
achieved using the command $DYNAMIC and $include q, see TOOLBX_A.BAS for an
example of these).

ת Windows

Don't have a INFO line unless it's going to be useful to the user. For
example, it could display brief help information or size of documents etc.

Never change the global settings of windows colours. This distorts the screen
makes the user think he/she has made a mistake.

ת Dialogs

If using the form_do (see basics) command, first call the AES function
wind_update(BEG_UPDATE) to update the dialog. After the dialog has been
displayed and an option chosen, release control to the Operating System by
calling wind_update(END_UPDATE).

Buttons should always appear in the order 'OK', 'Cancel', ...other
buttons..., 'Help' when working left to right or top to bottom. 'OK' should
be in all capitals. All other buttons should be capitalized.

A default button is suggested, the positive responce being the default. This
is untrue if the action of the dialog is irreversible, in which case the
negative is default.

ת Alerts

Don't provide an alert which has more than an OK button, where all buttons
lead to the same action.

Use 'Cannot' instead of 'Can't' or 'Can not'.

Try not to use icons which are not not mentioned in the manuals. A greater
value (as in multitos) has other icon pictures which cause all sorts of
things in normal TOS.

ת File Selectors

If you use a 3rd part file selector, always try your program with the system
version. Expect the unexpected...

ת Menus

  ת The File Menu
    The "File" menu should consist of the following items (presented in
    order):

    New
    Open...
    Recall (optional)
    Save
    Save as...
    Save all (optional)
    Any other document closing commands as required.
    ----------- (separator)
    Import (if applicable)
    Export (if applicable)
    Any other file operations as required.
    ----------- (separator)
    Page Setup... (if applicable)
    Print (if applicable)
    Any other printing commands as required.
    ----------- (separator)
    Quit

    Following is an example "File" menu:

  ת The Edit Menu
    The next menu, "Edit", usually contains the following items:

    Undo (if supported)
    Redo (if supported)
    ----------- (separator)
    Cut
    Copy
    Paste
    Delete
    ----------- (separator)
    Select All (optional)
    ----------- (separator)
    Find... (optional)
    Replace... (optional)
    Find Next (optional)
    ----------- (separator)
    Any other editing/searching commands.

ת Keyboard shortcuts

    Key          Equivalent Operation
    ctrl-n       New
    ctrl-o       Open
    ctrl-w       Close
    ctrl-s       Save as...
    ctrl-shift-s Save
    ctrl-p       Print
    ctrl-shift-p Page Setup
    ctrl-q       Quit
    ctrl-x       Cut
    ctrl-c       Copy
    ctrl-v       Paste
    ctrl-a       Select all
    ctrl-f       Find
    ctrl-r       Replace
    help         Access help
    undo         Undo last operation

תתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתת

ת Thanks...

  We would like to thank the following people who have in some way (both
  directly or otherwise) helped or encouraged our development of this
  project (or the Atari scene in general), in no particular order.

  HiSoft (for writing HiSoft BASIC), Atari Computing Magazine (cool mag),
  HiSoft BASIC User Group (www.cadenza.cyberstrider.org/), NVDI software
  (for NVDI!), Scott Sanders (for writing the excellent Atari Compendium),
  Atari Times Magazine and finally, Atari Corporation (RIP), Gary Bell &
  Robert Goldsmith (for their subroutine inspirations).

תתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתת

ת Future...

  Well, this really does depend upon you!! An update to ENCHANT has already
  been planned, but it does depend largely on user feedback (that's YOU!).
  Here are some of the ideas we've had for an update so far...

  ת New multi-window editor to provide you with a more productive
    programming environment.
  ת Easy to use installation program (written using ENCHANT of course!).
  ת Routines to use all the latest protocol's.
  ת Load and display images (GIF, JPEG etc.)
  ת Falcon030, DSP & MultiTOS command listings.
  ת Updating and streamlining of current ENCHANT modules.
  ת ANYTHING!! sent to us by other HiSoft BASIC programmers! (YOU!).

תתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתתת

[END OF FILE]